In this lecture, we take a look at locating by link text.
So what is link text?
Most websites will contain links to other sections, web pages or websites.
We can select an element using part or all of the link text.
For example, say we had a link to contact us which took you to the Contact US page.
We could use the Selenium link text method to select the elements by search for link named.
Contact us on the web page.
If we take a look at the below code snippet, you can see I'm using by link text and in the next set
of brackets double quotes, I'm providing a link text value of contact thus.
Let's look at an example.
Okay.
So the first thing I'm going to do is open up Google Chrome and I'm going to go to the automation test
in the code at UK website.
All I need to use is his home page.
And if we look on the left hand side, you'll see a menu and there are a number of links here which
will take you to a different Web page.
For this example, I'm going to use the actions link.
So the next thing I'm going to do here is press F12 on my keyboard to open up the Chrome developer tool.
On doing so you'll see that the menu collapsed.
So I'm going to click the burger bar to reopen the menu.
I'm then going to select the selector tool, and then I'm going to hover over and then click the actions
link.
If we look at the html, we can see that there's an open in and close in ally attack.
And inside these alloy tags is an I.D. take an I.D. tag is for links.
So we can see an open tag.
And after we can see hatred of an equal value, which is a link to another web page.
After that link, we then have actions and this is in plain text.
So this is a link reference or link text that we can then use.
So if we look at the HTML again, we can see actions as a capital, i.e., whereas if we look at actions
in the actual web page itself, actions is all uppercase.
So we need to reference one of these link takes values.
When we use the link text selector, so do we use actions in the HTML as shown with the capital, i.e.
or do we use the actions in uppercase as on the web page?
So we are going to be using the one from the Web page.
So the actions in uppercase and this is because link text is case sensitive.
So let's try this out.
So I'm going to open up the clips and I'm going to copy the class in the last lecture.
Some kinds of highlighted press control see and control reads.
Copy and paste it.
And I'm going to give this new class a name of l04 for lecture four underscore.
Located.
By link text.
And then I'm going to click okay and I'm going to double click that new class to open up.
So much of this code is going to be identical.
So the first thing I need to change, though, is the address from Driver.
They'll get to go directly to the automation test in home page and they need to change its last line,
which is C select the reference and I'm going to write driver dots, find element by dot link text and
you can see in the brackets I need to provide a string value.
So first I'm going to prove that the HTML link doesn't work.
So I'm going to copy actions with the Capital II and paste it in the double quotes.
And since this is a link, I'm going to want to click it.
So I'm going to write Doc click at the end of this line.
I'm then going to save this class and try running it to see what happens.
So you can see is gone to the automation testing homepage, but it hasn't clicked on the actions link.
This is proven that because we've used the HTML link reference, it hasn't worked.
And if we look at the error message here in the console.
I see what it says.
And it says no such elemental exception.
Unable to locate elements.
So it is unable to locate the elements used in the capitalized actions link.
So let's try this again.
But using the actions reference in all uppercase.
So I'm going to change actions to all uppercase as this is what appears on the web page.
Therefore save the class and try running it again.
Let's see if this works.
So as you can see, it's taken us to the actions Web page proving that it worked.
So we was able to do this by using the link text selector and providing a link takes value as shown
on the web page, not the page HTML.
So this is how we can use the link text selector.
Thanks for watching.